## Getting and Cleaning Data - Course Project

This project uses data from the Smartphone-Based Recognition of Human Activities and Postural Transitions Data Set. This data was generated by having subjects each perform six activities (standing, sitting, laying, walking, walking upstairs, and walking downstairs) while wearing a smartphone. The phone had an embedded accelerometer and gyroscope. The data set characterizes these movements with 561 features which describe the movements of the participants.

The current project summarizes a subset of the original data by selecting only the features which describe the mean and standard deviation of the movements and then averaging them by subject and activity. The results are saved in a new data set: tidydata.txt.


This repository includes the following files:
- README.md (this readme file)
- Tidy data set (tidydata.txt) which summarizes the original mean and standard deviation data by subject and activity.
- Script (run_analysis.R) which converts the original data set to the tidy data set.
- Code book (codebook.md) which describes the original study, the process for creating the tidy data set, and the variables included in the tidy data set.


The script run_analysis.R does the following:
* Reads in data from the Smartphone-Based Recognition of Human Activities and Postural Transitions Data Set, as provided in the zip file from coursera
* Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
* Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
* Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
* Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
* From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
